- [Instructor] Infrastructure as Code
is another key practice embraced by GitOps.
The idea behind Infrastructure as Code
is to apply practices traditionally used
by developers like source code versioning
and code reviews to the management of infrastructure.
This means that every change to a system's infrastructure
is written as code and stored in version control.
This allows us to track the changes
to the infrastructure over time.
When it's time to change
or build the infrastructure of a system,
Infrastructure as Code says we start
by writing the changes as code
and then feed the code into a tool for it to be applied.
If we stick with this approach,
we can avoid making manual one-off changes through GUIs
or issuing commands that we can never repeat through a CLI.
This should sound familiar
because it overlaps a lot with GitOps.
The Kubernetes manifest and Terraform files we looked at
is infrastructure expressed as code.
GitOps just takes it a step further
and favors declarative code.
Infrastructure as Code isn't as prescriptive
about what type of code we use
to describe the infrastructure.
GitOps also moves up the stack
and recommends we store declarative configuration code
for our Kubernetes objects and release strategies
in addition to any infrastructure,
like virtual machines or the actual cluster.
The operator running in our cluster is the tool
that helps automatically apply this infrastructure code.
That means we can avoid issuing one-off commands
we don't have captured anywhere through a command line.
The key difference is that GitOps is more strict
about only storing the code in a source code
management tool like Git and only using Git
as the interface for making changes to the system.
When we adopt the practices behind Infrastructure as Code,
system infrastructure can be changed
more rapidly and reliably.
Since everything is defined as code and repeatable,
we can quickly rebuild or create another instance
of our infrastructure.
This allows us to scale up very quickly.
Since everything is built from code,
it's built consistently, the same way every time,
and any changes to the code can be reviewed for errors
using a technique like a poll request.
We don't lose track of some change
that was made four years ago on the command line
because that's how surprises happen
and that's what we're trying to avoid with GitOps.
GitOps and Infrastructure as Code use similar practices
that allow infrastructure and applications
to be provisioned with techniques that increase velocity
and prevent issues caused by human error.